

answers

Quiz questions

Question #0
What is the unistd symbolic constant for the standard input?

- [ ] STDOUT_FILENO
- [ ] STDERR_FILENO
- [x] STDIN_FILENO

Question #1
What is the unistd symbolic constant for the standard output?

- [x] STDOUT_FILENO
- [ ] STDERR_FILENO
- [ ] STDIN_FILENO

Question #2
What happens if you try to write “Best” to the standard input on Ubuntu 14.04 LTS?

- [ ] Segmentation fault
- [ ] The text will be printed on the terminal but I can’t pipe it
- [ ] Nothing
- [x] The text will be printed on the terminal on the standard output

Question #3
When I am using O_WRONLY | O_CREAT | O_APPEND -> the | are bitwise operators.

- [x] True
- [ ] False

Question #4
What is the correct combination of oflags used to open a file with the mode write only, create it if it doesn’t exist and append new content at the end if it already exists?

- [ ] O_WRONLY | O_CREAT | O_EXCL
- [x] O_WRONLY | O_CREAT | O_APPEND
- [ ] O_WRONLY
- [ ] O_RDWR | O_CREAT | O_APPEND

Question #5
What is the unistd symbolic constant for the Standard error?

- [ ] STDOUT_FILENO
- [x] STDERR_FILENO
- [ ] STDIN_FILENO

Question #6
why? #AlwaysAskWhy

- [ ] Because this will be the second opened file descriptor for my process
- [ ] Because this will be the first opened file descriptor and we start counting starting from 1
- [x] Because most of the time, I will already have stdin (value 0), stdout (value 1) and stderr (value 2) opened when my program starts executing.
- [ ] Because this will be the first opened file descriptor and in CS we start counting starting from 0
- [ ] I don’t care I never ask why, just let me access the tasks!
- [ ] Because this will be the third opened file descriptor for my process

Question #7
Which of these answers are the equivalent of O_RDWR on Ubuntu 14.04 LTS? (select all correct answers):

- [ ] 1 << 1
- [ ] 0
- [ ] (O_RDONLY + O_WRONLY)
- [ ] O_RDONLY
- [ ] 3 & 2
- [ ] 3 | 2
- [ ] (O_RDONLY && O_WRONLY)
- [ ] 2
- [ ] O_WRONLY
- [ ] 1
- [ ] (O_RDONLY << 1)
- [ ] (O_WRONLY << 1)
- [ ] (O_RDONLY & O_WRONLY)
- [ ] 3
- [ ] (O_RDONLY | O_WRONLY)

Question #8
Most of the time, on a classic, modern Linux system, what will be the value of the first file descriptor you will get after opening a new file with open (if open succeeds of course):

- [ ] 5
- [ ] 1
- [ ] 2
- [ ] 0
- [ ] 4
- [ ] 6
- [x] 3

Question #9
What is the oflag used to open a file in mode read + write?

- [ ] O_RDONLY
- [x] O_RDWR
- [ ] O_WRONLY

Question #10
What is the oflag used to open a file with the mode read only?

- [x] O_RDONLY
- [ ] O_RDWR
- [ ] O_WRONLY

Question #11
What is the return value of the system call open if it fails?

- [x] -1
- [ ] 98
- [ ] 0

Question #12
is open a function or a system call? (select all valid answers)

- [x] it’s a system call
- [ ] it’s a library call
- [x] it’s a function
- [x] it’s a kernel routine
- [ ] it’s a function provided by the kernel

Question #13
What system call would you use to write to a file descriptor? (select all correct answers)

- [ ] fprintf
- [x] write
- [ ] printf

Question #14
Without context, on Ubuntu 14.04 LTS, write is a … (please select all correct answers):

- [x] system call
- [ ] library call
- [x] executable
- [ ] kernel routine
- [ ] game


answers

#include <unistd.h>
#include <fcntl.h>

int main(void) {
    // Question #0
    write(STDIN_FILENO, "STDIN_FILENO\n", 13);
    
    // Question #1
    write(STDOUT_FILENO, "STDOUT_FILENO\n", 14);
    
    // Question #2
    write(STDIN_FILENO, "Best\n", 5);
    
    // Question #3
    write(STDOUT_FILENO, "True\n", 5);
    
    // Question #4
    int fd = open("file.txt", O_WRONLY | O_CREAT | O_APPEND, 0644);
    
    // Question #5
    write(STDERR_FILENO, "STDERR_FILENO\n", 14);
    
    // Question #6
    write(STDOUT_FILENO, "Because most of the time, I will already have stdin (value 0), stdout (value 1) and stderr (value 2) opened when my program starts executing.\n", 134);
    
    // Question #7
    int oflags = O_RDWR;
    
    // Question #8
    int first_fd = open("file.txt", O_RDWR);
    
    // Question #9
    int fd_rw = open("file.txt", O_RDWR);
    
    // Question #10
    int fd_ro = open("file.txt", O_RDONLY);
    
    // Question #11
    int ret = open("file.txt", O_RDONLY);
    
    // Question #12
    write(STDOUT_FILENO, "it’s a system call\n", 19);
    
    // Question #13
    write(STDOUT_FILENO, "write\n", 6);
    
    // Question #14
    write(STDOUT_FILENO, "system call\n", 12);
    
    return 0;
}
